In this lesson, I'm going to talk about Amazon QuickSight and it's not a service that we often talk about in AWS focused courses, because in a way it's kind not an AWS service, and it kind of is at the same time, let me explain what I mean and first of all, maybe let me explain what QuickSight is, especially if you've not come across it before on it's a business intelligence tool or a BI tool. So this is the kind of thing that we can use once we have data somewhere, we can bring it into this tool to be able to use it in presentations, to be able to make business decisions by looking at the data. So we create dashboards that we can have up on big screens in the office so we can see the number of calls coming through our call center. We can create email reports so that we can periodically get an automated report coming out and telling us what the sales figures look like and we can embed the reports into an internet page or into some other whatever kind of system we have. Maybe it's the console, which is used by our engineers, and they want to see what the current trends are looking like of the use of resources and depending on what kind of business you're in and what kind of role you have in that business. These dashboards, email reports and embedded reports are going to do different things for you that it's it's a pure business tool. It's a business intelligence tool and QuickSight is AWS or Amazon's version of that and compared to other things that we would deal with, such as S3 and EC2 and SNS Amazon Quicksight is an end user targeted application and so it is very much designed for federated identity access that you log in with your work credentials, click a link and then through you go to this application you use. So it's an end user. It is cloud hosted, but it's an end user application so that someone who understands data can move blocks around and make graphs and make things look pretty and make business decisions based on that data, so it's not so much something which lives inside of the AWS console, but you can access it through the console and you have to go through a number of steps to set up a QuickSight environment that you can use and it is worth pointing out that because of that and it because it's not actually inside of AWS per se, it's not something that we can do currently in playgrounds and so you'd have to experiment with this in your own account but I can show you it on what it looks like here. For this exam really, just knowing thatQuickSight exists, it can be used to visualize data and so the visualization of data can help you analyze your initial training data on maybe give you personally insight as to which algorithm you might want to use to train and create your model with your training data. So let's jump into the AWS console on, remind ourselves where we're kind of up to on this sort of loosely joined story of our penguin data. What I want to do is use QuickSight to visualize this penguin data, and it might give us an idea of what kind of machine learning algorithm maybe we could use to train our model and so here is Athena the Athena console and we can see a sample of the data that we have. So the heights and weights of penguins. If I move over to my other tab here I go to the QuickSight page and you can see straight away. It doesn't really look like an AWS page as such, it's a little bit more polished if I'm honest and it's filled full of all this sample data and sample endpoints and stuff, because it's a it's a brand new instance but I can use this to visualize that data. Let's have a look at how we can do that. The first thing that we need to do in here is to go to manage data on when I do that, I get to choose to bring in a new data set. So these are data sets that I have already in this account and these are created here for us by default by Amazon, so that we've got something to play around with in the first place but I want to go ahead and say new data set up here at the top left. So you click that and then from this menu now you can see of all the different places they're Quicksight natively understands information. So I could go ahead and just upload a CSV file into the QuickSight environment and there's this. There's this spice capacity where you can actually store up over here. It says at the moment I've got one gigabyte of space I can store up to a gigabyte of data inside of the Quicksight platform itself so I could go ahead and upload something but I don't want to do that. I can integrate it with sales force. A bunch of AWS services that obviously we're familiar with and GitHub and service. Now, when all of this stuff but what we want to do and you may have seen it in the middle there is go and tap into Athena so we could go and get some data directly out of S3 but because we've already done that work in Athena, I'm going to go into Athena. So let's click on that and it says, enter the name of the data source. So I'm going to click there, and I'm going to go back to Athena to remind me what it was called and in here, we can see it's the demo data DB is the database. So that's that data source that we want to go to. So let's go back here and type in demo data DB and then click Create Data Source and what should happen now is it should connect into Athena. Allow me to select the actual database here and then it should allow me to select the view that I want to use, which is demo data view here. So I could go to the original survey data or I could go to the actual view that I created click Select. It's then going to go ahead and set find that select that and offer to import it into the data area that I have inside of my reporting tool and I'll say for the purposes of this, I don't want to do that when I query it directly from where the data is currently stored. So this is back in the original S3. So let's go ahead and say, visualize that and what it should do is provide me with an empty graph space, an empty space where I can start to compile my demonstration report but over on the side here, you can see that I have my two data elements the height and the weights of our penguins and so let's go ahead on and create a scatter plot, because that's probably going to help us so I can click on their element there and it puts a scatter plot in here for us, and it shows us that we need an X axis and a Y axis, which is handy because that's exactly what I have. So on the X axis going on the bottom, let's put weights on there. So I literally drag the element from the fields list onto the X axis box. With that we have there and I want height on the Y axis. So let's go and grab that and drop it on the Y axis box here and a symbol is that we should now get a plot of our graph weight against height is taking a little while to do it because it has to go off and grab that data from the actual S3 bucket itself all the way through the Athena query and then all the way into Quicksight here. So this is rendering data from the S3 bucket and there we go. We can see it now. We can use this to try and figure out what's going to be the most appropriate machine learning model for this data and or machine learning algorithm and I would suggest that maybe a linear regression, because that's what we've done in the past and also because it probably fits the kind of data that we have but in this lesson, we've been able to see sort of the culmination of the last few lessons where we have data inside of S3. We've then used glue to go and crawl through that data and to figure out the schema for that data, which it's stored in its own database. We've then used that to query that from Athena and we use Athena to do some high level feature engineering to say okay, well, we don't want to have the survey ID. We don't want to have the temperature of when the measurements were taken and we want to add together all the different height elements that we had into a single height measurement and then we brought that over into QuickSight so that we could visualize that data all within the Amazon Web Services ecosystem and all completely serverless. So this is a demonstration of how you can use Amazon Quicksight.