We've looked at the different data stores,
where we can store our data within AWS
and we've talked about a few different migration tools.
Now, I wanna cover some helper tools
that can help us get our data
into AWS and also help us store our data within AWS.
Now, these tools didn't fit directly
within the last two lectures,
so I wanted to briefly discuss them here.
And, we'll start by talking about EMR.
Now, EMR is a fully managed Hadoop cluster eco-system
that runs on multiple EC2 instances.
And what EMR allows you to do
is pick and choose different frameworks
that you want to include within the cluster.
This allows you to run distributed workloads
over many EC2 instances
if you have petabytes and petabytes worth of data.
Now, most of these products are open source
and EMR allows you to assemble all or some
of these together to do different things.
Now, in our case, we could use EMR
to store mass amounts of files
in a distributed file system
to use as our input or training data.
Now, if our data is already within an EMR cluster,
we can use some of the frameworks and services
to migrate the data into S3,
or we can use services like AWS Data Pipeline
to load that data into S3.
Now, we'll talk about the EMR eco-system at a later chapter
when we start talking about our data preparation process.
But, I just wanted to mention it here,
and how it's used to store petabytes of data
among a distributed file system.
And, you can see here from the AWS console,
when we create a cluster,
we can choose advanced options and select the different
frameworks that we would like to use.
And, the last tool that I wanna discuss is Amazon Athena.
And what Amazon Athena is, is a serverless platform
that allows you to run sequel queries on your S3 data.
Now, earlier we mentioned how Redshift Spectrum
does a similar task,
but we'll define the difference of the two here
in just a little while.
We can essentially set up a table
within our data catalog within AWS Glue
and use Athena to query our S3 data.
So, within the console,
we can select tables that are defined
within our AWS Glue data catalog,
we can write a query,
and then output the results onto S3 or output the results
onto a CSV file.
So, I wanted to mention Athena here so we know
that we can use it to query our S3 data.
So, what's the difference
between Redshift Spectrum and Athena?
Well, they both allow you to query S3 data,
but with Redshift Spectrum,
you must have a Redshift cluster spun up.
Now, that's not needed with Athena,
as long as you have a table defined
within your AWS Glue data catalog.
And, Redshift Spectrum is mainly used
by existing Redshift customers.
And, new customers that quickly want to query their S3 data,
they can use Athena for that.
So, in summary, for this chapter,
after we discussed several AWS data stores,
some different migration tools, and some helper tools,
we are now ready to get our data onto S3,
and then we can finally start using SageMaker.
Now, we'll cover SageMaker more in depth
after a few chapters.
But, just know that this is our one-stop shop
for machine learning within AWS.
So, that's it for this lecture.
I just wanted to mention these two tools,
so you have an understanding of what they are
at a high level and how they could possibly be used
during the data collection process.
If you have any questions,
then please post in the course form;
and if not, then let's move on to the next lecture!